Durban - The most important aspect of President Cyril Ramaphosa's State of the Nation Address (SONA)was the recognition that a lack of reading skills in South Africa. Ramaphosa presented SONA of the 6th Parliament on Thursday 20 June. The theme was let's grow South Africa together as we celebrate 25 years of freedom. Nkosipendule Ntantala, President of the National Professional Teachers Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), said that from an education point of view, the lack of reading skills was undermining the whole education system, even into the far reaches of universities. Ntantala said the Department of Basic Education has largely skirted this issue, but will now have no choice, but to make it their priority. "Involving the National Reading Coalition in this very important matter and implementing an Early Grade Reading Programme are welcomed by NAPTOSA – also the view that the entire nation should be mobilized behind a massive reading campaign, because if adults read, children will be motivated too,"he said. NAPTOSA was disappointed that the phenomenon of violence in schools that has reared its head with such intensity over the past months did not receive a mention from the president. "Whilst we understand that it should receive the required attention of the minister, it was nevertheless expected that the president would make an announcement on how it is going to be addressed, because it is no longer a number of isolated incidents, but a real national crisis, said Ntantala. The fact that around half a million children of school going age with disabilities are not in school is, to say least, shocking. He said the renewed focus on this group of children is disheartening, because no child should be left behind. "Locating the co-ordination of disability initiatives in the Presidency sends a clear message of government’s determination to address this problem. The seven priority areas listed by the President, which includes education, commands support, although it is questionable that “A better Africa and World” should be one of them at this juncture. Our sole and absolute focus should be on getting our country on the road to rapid recovery. Once achieved, we can then focus on Africa and the World,"Ntantala said. Daily News