Police spokesperson Colonel Thulani Zwane said the child was found on Monday in Umlazi. Two men, aged 26 and 29, were arrested and charged with kidnapping. Zwane said they were expected to appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court today. Farouk went missing on Saturday from a crèche in Clairwood. CCTV footage showed a man, unknown to the family, taking Farouk’s hand and leading him away. Following a public outcry on social media, the boy was finally found on Monday. Vusi Mhlongo, Farouk’s father, said he wanted to thank the police and everyone involved in finding his child. “We are extremely grateful, my wife and I, to the police, neighbours and everyone else who was helpful in bringing our child home,” he said. Mhlongo said he felt a sense of relief after meeting Farouk for the first time since he went missing. He said Farouk looked fine and was inseparable from his mother, Zanele. “The past couple of days have been very hard. It was a real struggle for me and my wife. We had just been hoping, praying and waiting,” he said. Wendy Pascoe, a private investigator involved in the search effort, said she was glad the child was found in such a short space of time. “Vusi got in touch with me shortly after the child went missing. I then put out a missing person’s alert and was working directly with the Brighton Beach SAPS, making sure that all role players were involved,” she said. “A lot of credit to Captain (Marius) van der Looy and the guys at Brighton. They put together a team very quickly and were working around the clock the past two days to find the child.”  Farouk was sent for check-ups at Addington Hospital and the family later went back home to Umlazi. Mhlongo said the family wanted to put this episode behind them and hopefully carry on as normal. “We set up a task team, along with community members, and went about searching,” said Van der Looy, who led the team. “We reviewed a lot of footage trying to get a trace back. We interviewed a couple of people, which led us to our first suspect. We interviewed him and he led us to our second suspect, and then we found the child,” he said. One man was arrested in Umlazi and the other in Clairwood. Daily News