Durban - KwaZulu-Natal was the province with the second highest number of male, female and self-inflicted or suicide deaths in the country over a three year period. The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) revealed that in the last three years (2015 - 2018), 1 495 natural deaths, 78 self-inflicted/suicides and 28 unnatural deaths (homicides), were reported at Correctional Centres in South Africa. The statistics were revealed in Pietermaritzburg on Friday during a seminar. JICS spokesperson, Emerantia Cupido, said majority of natural inmate deaths recorded were 1 460 males and 35 females. Of those inmate deaths, 1 063 were sentenced males and 28 sentenced females. KwaZulu-Natal was the second highest of male deaths, with 205 sentenced and 68 remanded. Gauteng was first with 269 sentenced and 107 remanded. KwaZulu-Natal was second again with female deaths, with eight sentenced and three remanded. “The period spent for remand inmates ranged from 30 days up to 2 years, but died at the centres before they could be sentenced or acquitted by the courts. Some of the highest causes for natural deaths for remand as well as sentenced inmates included sepsis, pulmonary related, renal failure, meningitis, respiratory failure, HIV/RVD related, cardiac arrest, pneumonia and tuberculosis etc. This list is by no means exhaustive as only the highest causes were taken into account,” Cupido said. With 78 self-inflicted or suicides, Gauteng had the highest number of 34 percent, followed by KwaZulu-Natal with 17 percent, with the Eastern Cape with the least, at nine percent. Cupido said the majority of inmates taking their own lives were between the ages of 31-35. Inspecting Judge, Justice Johann van der Westhuizen said: “It is clear from these statistics that the majority of inmates dying are those that enter the correctional system soon after they are sentenced. An inference is then made that newly incarcerated inmates have a shorter lifespan than those that have been in the system for approximately 5 years or more.” Meanwhile, during his address, deputy minister of justice, Nkosi S.P. Holomisa said: “Any death recorded in a correctional facility does hurt the institution, be it natural or unnatural. This is certainly not an easy subject, but, as a democratic state founded on principles of human rights, it remains our duty to tackle it.” Daily News