Durban - Police are still searching for a gunman who attempted to kill a Westville resident while he was driving along the M13 in Westville on Thursday. The Westville resident who has been identified as Ravi Chetty,49, survived an apparent hit on his life when a gunman opened fire with a rifle towards his car on the M13 in Westville. Dashcam footage from a car travelling behind Chetty's white Mercedes captured the moment as it took place. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  From the footage you can see a car overtake Chetty's vehicle on the two way road, with many bends. A hand appears out of the car holding onto what appears to be a rifle. A burst of gun shots can be heard. Chetty, who had been driving, slammed on the brakes. A car behind narrowly avoids slamming into the back of his car. A man appears to have jumped of Chetty's car and ran into the bushes alongside the road. He has not been identified and was not injured in the shooting. The vehicle the shooters use slows down and then drives off. A man and woman walking on the pavement about 50 meters away stop when they heard the salvo of gun shots. The bullets struck Chetty on his arm and face. The road was closed while police conducted their investigations on Thursday. Mike Myers, a spokesperson for Mobi-Claw911 said the shooting happened in an upmarket residential area on the Old Main Road in Cowies Hill which runs along the Cowies Hill border between Westville and Pinetown. "The MOBI-CLAW911 control received multiple activation's of a shooting. It was established that a man had suffered a gunshot wound. Both SAPS and Jag Security were quickly on scene. ER 24 paramedics arrived minutes later and treated the victim for a gunshot wound to the arm, he refused hospital transportation electing to take himself off for treatment,"Myers said. He said witnesses on scene reported that a vehicle with unknown number of occupants had overtaken the victim’s vehicle and fired a number of shots at the victim, one shot striking him in the arm. Myers said the motive for the shooting is not known, police are investigating. Myers said the incident took place during rush hour traffic and a huge thank you must be given to the ER24 personnel who assisted with traffic management until Durban Metro police arrived on scene. Chetty formerly of Sydenham owns minibus taxis in Sydenham and Overport. In November 2011, Chetty was shot 13 times at close range in the parking lot at Suncoast Casino and Entertainment World. According to KZN police spokesman, Captain Thulani Zwane, security guards nabbed three suspects who tried to escape after the shooting. When police arrived and searched the men they found three 9mm pistols. Two of the men were sentenced in the Durban Regional Court for attempted murder as well as possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Chetty is also a fitness fanatic and participated in several Iron Man challenges in Durban. Chetty could not be reached for comment. Westville police have opened an attempted murder docket for investigation. Daily News