The HIV Prevention Trials Network recently released results from their study titled HPTN 071, which started in 2013 with the aim of testing whether early implementation of Population Effects Antiretroviral Therapy (PopART) would help reduce the number of new infections. More than 1million people aged between 18 and 44 from South Africa and Zambia, all living in 21 peri-urban communities, participated in the study. This was the largest HIV trial to date and the study was broken down into three arms. People in the Arm A group received the full PopArt combination prevention package. Arm B also included the full Pop Art package but according to national guidelines. In Arm C, people were treated in keeping with their country’s guidelines. “In Arm B, where we had community workers going door-to-door and standard of care services at the health clinic, we achieved a 30% reduction in new HIV infections,” said Peter Bock a research clinician at Desmond Tutu TB Centre in the Department of Paediatrics and Child Health at Stellenbosch University. “We did not see a similar reduction in new HIV infections with another strategy where universal HIV treatment was offered from the beginning of the study. “Additional analysis is under way to explore the reasons for this finding,” said Richard Hayes, the protocol chairperson and Professor of Epidemiology and International Health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. The study included home-based HIV testing and immediate ART referral to all who tested positive. All men who tested negative were encouraged to get circumcised. There was also education of mother-to-child transmission, condom use and the distribution of condoms at strategic places. Further research is yet to be conducted on the acceptability of PopART intervention in communities and the economic evaluations on community health-care centres in implementing it. HPTN is one the leading organisations on researching HIV preventions around the world. HPTN 052 concluded that there was a 93% reduction rate in HIV transmission between serodiscordant couples (where one partner is infected and another is not) when ART is started early. According to Statistics SA, 7.28 million people were living with HIV in 2018 with KwaZulu-Natal having the highest number (2.1 million) of people living with the virus, the Human Sciences Research Council said. Daily News