EThekwini spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the purpose of the extension was to improve the quality and quantity of water being provided to uShaka Marine World. Another benefit would be that the pier would be used by the public for recreation. “Depending on a successful environmental approval for this project from the National Department of Oceans and Coasts and the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, the project could be completed by mid-2020.” According to a notice placed in eThekwini’s Ezasegagasini Metro publication, an additional 70 well points would pump water to uShaka with the extension. The notice said the current number of well points was insufficient to provide quality water to uShaka Marine World, placing the marine life in the facility in danger. The public was given 21 days to make submissions. South Durban Community Environmental Alliance activist Desmond D’Sa said the city failed to take into consideration the impact that climate change would have on the pier. He said other piers on Durban’s beaches were already being battered by the rising oceans. “They are playing with nature,” he said. D’Sa said more than 12 000 subsistence fishermen should also benefit from the extension as they had been making a living off the piers for more than 100 years. It was not only the rising sea levels that was of concern, but whether such a project should be embarked on considering the South African economy was not doing well, he said. Riaz Khan, chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal Subsistence Fishing Forum, said they would welcome the extended pier as it meant they would be able to fish in deeper waters. Like D’Sa, Khan lamented the current state of piers on Durban’s beaches, which he said had deadly consequences for fishermen. Marine researcher Khalid Mather said he would support the extension if it benefited the public. He added that those in favour and against the extension should come together and iron out their differences. Mather said, however, the developers should ensure that the project would have minimal impact on the environment. Daily News