On Friday night Lamola confiscated cellphones, mobile accessories and drugs, including dagga at Westville Prison during a raid at the facility. He said harsh action would be taken against officials involved in enabling the smuggling of contraband into prisons. “We want to create an environment that is conducive to the rehabilitation of offenders at all our centres, and the smuggling of contraband is one of the disturbances that we want to uproot,” he pointed out. “We will continuously look at ways that we can address this. Offenders who are caught with contraband will be dealt with harshly,” said Lamola. The national office of the SA Prisoners Organisation for Human Rights (SAPOHR) said the department knew that correctional officers smuggled drugs in and out of prisons. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  SAPOHR national spokesperson Golden Miles Bhudu said the drug issue in prisons was much bigger than the government is insinuating. “There are prisoners who commit more untraceable crimes in prison. Drug syndicates in prisons are big, and some officers are on the payrolls of prison drug-dealers,” he said. On September 13 a correctional officer was arrested at a roadblock after being found in possession of an illegal firearm and a bag of drugs. He appeared in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court last week. “We welcome the arrest of the correctional officer. We hope the government will make an example of him, and show those who are still in the prison drugs’ syndicates that it is time for them to stop and do their jobs to help prisoners get rehabilitated,” said Bhudu Provincial department spokesperson Thulani Mdluli said the officer who was arrested was stationed at the Westville Correctional Centre. “The officer was in possession of a firearm with a serial number that had been tampered with, as well as a bag of Ecstasy drugs. We have instituted our preliminary investigation to obtain more information about this matter,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. National department spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said even if the officer was arrested outside the department’s premises or while off-duty, it was still not acceptable, and it would not be tolerated. “We want to remind officials, inmates and families of offenders that you are an accessory to crime by assisting offenders in smuggling. We also acknowledge that there are some rotten apples in our department that must be rooted out,” he said.  Daily News