This was the second eviction at the Khenana Informal Settlement, near Cato Crest, with the first having occurred on Wednesday. Late last month, the matter concerning Abahlali’s application was adjourned indefinitely in the Durban High Court to give the municipality and Human Settlements Department time to prepare supplementary responding affidavits. The movement’s Thapelo Mohapi said the judge in the matter ruled that there were to be no further evictions and no erection of new structures in the interim. The movement made the application after 46 shacks were demolished and three torched, allegedly by the anti-land invasion unit during the evictions. The movement claimed that the evictions, undertaken by the unit and Metro Police, were effected without a court order as prescribed by the law. Metro Police at the time denied this, saying the evictions were carried out lawfully. Mohapi said Abahlali would file court papers urgently as a result of the two evictions. “The shacks demolished and burnt on Wednesday and yesterday were not new. There have been no new shacks built since we were in court in December,” he said. Meanwhile, 23 Khenana residents appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court yesterday, charged with public violence. The group, including women and teenagers, was arrested last November after clashes with the Metro Police and anti-land invasion unit who were demolishing their shacks in Cato Crest. During their last court appearance on November 17, the residents were released on R500 bail each after spending a night at the Durban Central Police Station. The case was adjourned to February 28 for further investigation and for the state to obtain CCTV footage of the incident and witness statements. Abahlali said the adjournment was yet another delaying tactic to intimidate and victimise people desperately in need of land for shelter. Mohapi said the police did not have any evidence against those arrested. “They were being chased out of their homes before they were burnt down with all their belongings still inside. The people were violated and they are the ones who deserve justice,” he said. Mohapi added that the state should give in and withdraw the cases as the suspects had lived with the dark cloud of the case over their heads since their arrests in November. “It’s delaying tactics. The main issue is that the eThekwini Municipality has unlawfully evicted people and now they are shifting focus. The people were evicted without a court order. These families did not benefit from social housing through the corruption in the allocation of houses and now when they... (manage to get) a roof over their heads, they are treated like animals,” he said. eThekwini spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the city was guided by the law in its duty to uphold by-laws and in doing so, would never go against a court ruling. Mayisela added that the city would not allow land grabs, as these destabilise the city. Daily News