Declared as one of the hotspots for hijackings of Uber drivers by the police, the area had recorded many incidents since 2017, which led to the police issuing a warning to affected communities to be extra vigilant. A 19-year-old man appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court after he was arrested for hijacking an Uber driver in Avoca Hills in December. Thamba Santa Lukhele was remanded until February 1. Lukhele was set to apply for bail yesterday, but his lawyer was not in court. It is alleged that he assaulted Uber driver Siyanda Hopewell Mkhathini and hijacked his vehicle, a VW Polo, at gunpoint on December 27 last year. A police source said Lukhele may be linked to other Uber hijackings and maybe part of a bigger group of hijackers who targeted Uber drivers. Two other teenagers who requested a ride using the e-hailing app and held up a taxi driver appeared in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court yesterday. The suspects - aged 16 and 18 - face charges of car-jacking and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. It is alleged that the incident took place on January 13 at about 8.25 pm. The driver allegedly received a request for a trip from Musa Dladla to the Inanda area. When he arrived, two males flagged him down and forced him to drive to Lindelani area. As they drove towards Lindelani, the driver saw a police patrol van, who stopped them. On being told by the driver that he was being held up, the officers searched the suspects and found a firearm on one and four rounds of ammunition on the other. Two other suspects, aged 27 and 29, appeared in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court in May last year for allegedly hijacking and robbing an Uber driver. They allegedly robbed him of cash and forced him to withdraw more from an ATM. The two were linked to other hijackings of Uber drivers in April 2018 in the KwaMashu, Greenwood Park and Sydenham policing areas. Police issued a warning to Uber and metered taxi drivers to be on high alert when driving in the KwaMashu and surrounding areas after a number of robberies were reported. According to the police, criminals would pretend to be clients and want to be fetched from restaurants, night clubs or other places to their requested destination around KwaMashu. The suspects would rob the drivers of their belongings at gunpoint, and also take their vehicles. Daily News