Police vans were damaged and a police officer was injured, when he was hit on the head with a brick, allegedly by members of the community who were against the raid. Chatsworth community leader Rocky Naidoo said residents had recently complained about police work and accused police of not doing anything about crime in the area. He said police were in the area patrolling, because they were doing something to address the community’s concerns about crime. “It’s the few who did not like the police being there doing their work, because they benefited from drug dealers. “The rest of the community is against the assault of police officers. At the end of the day, damaging police vehicles would affect the community, not the police,” said Naidoo. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the Durban Flying Squad was conducting an operation in Taurus Street, Shallcross, when they were attacked, allegedly by a group of about 200 community members. She said the police were following up on intelligence about drug trade in that area. “Police officers were assaulted and a rifle was stolen. Police vehicles were stoned and damaged. Public Order Police, the National Intervention Unit, the K-9 unit and Air Wing, as well as Chatsworth police were at the scene. Paramedics were also prevented from assisting the injured police officers by the crowd,” said Mbele. She said a case of public violence, assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, theft of a firearm, malicious damage to property and obstructing police officers was opened. “Injured police officers were taken to hospital for medical attention,” she added. She said police arrested two suspects aged 37 and 41 and they have not yet been charged. “Swift police action led to the recovery of the firearm and the arrest of a 26-year-old suspect, who was found in possession of a police rifle. He was caught while trying to conceal it. He will be charged for illegal possession of a firearm. The arrested suspects will appear in the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court soon,” Mbele said. A community member who did not want to be named, felt the state should come down hard on the alleged drug dealer. He said the mob that stoned the police should not deter the police from doing their job. This was not the first time the police had raided the alleged drug dealer’s home. In 2013, he reportedly fled his home before a major police raid. It was also reported that R5million worth of drugs was allegedly found in his home, during a police raid in January 2013. He was arrested in Pinetown in 2016, for allegedly being in possession of about R1.8million worth of drugs and various firearms, including a Beretta 6.35 pistol and a home-made gun. Naidoo said there were also allegations that the community was not happy that the alleged drug dealer was arrested in 2016, but was not convicted. Another community member said they hoped that the police would provide the court with enough evidence for a conviction, in order to save the community of Chatsworth from drugs. Daily News