This comes after he tried to protect his 11-year-old son, who will appear with him in court, for allegedly shooting his 9-year-old sister in October. According to police, the girl was buried and her father had told everyone she had hurt her head after a fall. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said it was not until police received information in December that they learnt she had been accidentally shot with a home-made gun, allegedly by her brother. Police made an urgent application to have the child’s body exhumed. “The body was exhumed on December 14, a post-mortem was done and the body was reburied. We are still awaiting a post-mortem report and we are investigating a case of murder,” Zwane said. Professor Shannon Hoctor, law expert at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said the crime of defeating the ends of justice was not mentioned in the minimum sentencing legislation, so there were no requirements that a particular minimum sentence be handed down in relation to it. “The leading textbook on common-law crimes, by Milton, makes the following comment: Punishment is discretionary, and frequently severe, even if the conviction is only for an attempt,” he said. He said because of this, the sentence that would likely be handed to the father, should he be convicted, would depend on which court this matter was heard in. Since the crime was a common-law crime, as opposed to a crime established by a statute, there was no penalty range set out for a conviction. “This means that the judicial officer has a discretion in sentencing which would only be limited by the jurisdiction of the court. For example if the court hearing the matter is a district court, the maximum fine would be R120 000 and maximum imprisonment would be three years, while if the case is heard in the regional court the maximum fine is R600000 and 15 years. “In the high court there are no jurisdictional limits,” said Hoctor. He said while there was a minimum sentence provided for by the sentencing legislation for murder which was at least 15 years, if there were aggravating factors a life sentence could be handed down. “However, because the accused is 11, the State will have to rebut the presumption that he did not have the necessary capacity to commit the crime. It would be presumed that he could not distinguish between right and wrong, and could not control his actions,” he said. “If he is convicted, it is very likely that the court would find that there are substantial and compelling circumstances to deviate from the prescribed minimum sentence on the basis of his age,” explained Hoctor. He said one of the sentencing principles attached to children was that imprisonment must only be imposed as a last resort, and if imposed, for the shortest appropriate period of time. Daily News