Durban - A security company's warning to motorists to be on alert following a spike in hijackings in the city, and a new trend of hijackers attempting to abduct drivers in their vehicles may have spooked many people but there are precautions one can take. Blue Security operations director Brian Jackson said the company had received reports of five hijackings and two attempted hijackings across Durban over the past week alone. He however said there are steps people can take to avoid falling victim such as: • Motorists should be extremely vigilant when arriving home and avoid turning into a driveway, without first checking for any suspicious activity or vehicles following behind them. • While you’re waiting for the driveway gate to open, keep your cellphone close and unlocked on an emergency contact’s number, or load our mobile panic app, to allow you to call for help at the tap of a button should you be held up. • Some of the latest smart phones come with built in emergency features, such as the Samsung Galaxy, which when triggered, automatically sends an emergency message with your location, a picture of the situation, as well as an audio message. • Don’t fall into a rut on your daily travels routes that make you forget to pay attention. Keep your doors locked, your windows shut and your eyes open. • If you feel uneasy about a pedestrian or a vehicle parked nearby, or you suspect that you have been followed, rather drive past your property and around the block, before going home. If the vehicle has not moved on, contact your security company for assistance and drive to your nearest police station. Should the unthinkable happen, Jackson advised motorists to comply with hijackers and to step away from the vehicle with their hands clearly visible to show that they were not planning to pull out a weapon. “If you find yourself in a hijacking situation, comply with the hijackers and ask them as calmly as possible to allow family members and children to first safely get out of the vehicle before they take it.” Daily News