Yesterday, at an award ceremony for top matric achievers within South African prisons, it also received the award for the highest number of bachelor passes. Nationally, 235 inmates wrote their 2018 matric examinations and 185 of them wrote seven subjects. Usethubeni had 23 candidates and was further awarded for the best performing teachers and placed second among the country prisons for best overall passes. Minister of Correctional Services advocate Michael Masutha said South Africa had 243 correctional services centres with about 164000 inmates and was supported by 38000 to 40000 correctional services officials. “These officials go the extra mile because they love what they do and this includes the over 500 teachers and trainees at various schools and training centres,” he said. Masutha said education was a start in dealing with crime, which he described as an orchestrated social ill, engineered by the apartheid regime that created a conducive environment for crime levels to escalate. Masutha said the department was working hard to address the issue of capacity in prisons in an effort to give every inmate a chance at the prison programmes, including education. “Over the last four years, you have not disappointed,” said Masutha to the class of 2018 which achieved a 77.3% pass rate. We have come from an 85% to a 98% success rate when it comes to social integration. This means fewer inmates who get placement on parole re-offend,” he said. Correctional Services KZN commissioner Mnikelwa Nxele said the success of the matriculants was its contribution to a better South Africa through their work at the various prisons. “And we hope that when you are successful in whatever path you choose that you come back to contribute to our correctional services centres,” he said. Nhlakanipho Mpofana from Port Shepstone was the overall top achiever, with four distinctions. The 21-year-old, who would be eligible for parole in five months, was sentenced to eight years imprisonment in 2015 for attempted murder. “I want to give back to this centre. I want to come back and teach and to also guide my brothers so that they don’t make the same mistakes I did,” he said. Daily News