Durban - With The National Energy Regulator (Nersa) public hearings on the proposed Eskom electricity tariff hikes set to take place on Thursday in Durban the proposed hike has been met with criticism from local business organisations. The regulator had approved a 4.41 per cent hike already for the power utility, however, Eskom has asked an increase in electricity tariffs by 15 per cent each year over for the next three years - meaning consumers will pay 45 per cent by 2021. Junaid Iqbal of the Isipingo Business Forum said the proposed hike was ridiculous and would not be good for businesses which were already paying too much for electricity. “Times are already difficult and to maintain our business some of us have to cut jobs because no one wants to run a business at a loss. The proposed 15 per cent increase per annum for the next three years is a steep one,” he said. Ebrahim Patel of the Muslim Business Chamber (Minara) said the already high costs of production and lower demand are negatively affecting business. “However the knock on effect is that any hike in electricity costs will be passed on to consumers who are also battling rising inflation and costs of living. This situation is not sustainable,” he said. He said South Africa has had continued electricity tariff hikes none of which have solved the problem at Eskom. “It is unfair that ordinary citizens and businesses who are already burdened with taxes and high costs of living should be seen as an easy way for Eskom to raise funding.  It would be more prudent for Eskom to formulate a proper business model that reduces costs and overheads, increases productivity and efficiency and leads to better administration of this vital state asset,” said Patel. He said at best, any increase should be in line with CPI. “Government needs to see our utilities in a more strategic manner that have a direct impact on our country and find means of stimulating the economy so that businesses can support the government in creating much-needed jobs”.