One of the suspects is still at large after fleeing into bushes, while another was injured and taken to hospital under police guard. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said there were four occupants in the vehicle when it was stopped by officers. The four were allegedly on their way to embark on a hijacking spree when they were spotted travelling southbound on the N2 by the team, who were following up on a lead. The team included members of the Provincial Task Team and the special operations team of Marshall Security. Zwane said the suspects are believed to be linked to many other cases of house robberies and hijackings in Durban and surrounding areas. According to Marshall Security spokesperson Kyle van Reenen, once the suspects’ vehicle was spotted, officers began following it to the M7 towards Pinetown, where it turned off towards Queensburgh. “Noticing that they were being followed, the suspects jumped the traffic light, fleeing back on to the M7 towards Durban, and a high-speed chase ensued with the suspects opening fire on the pursuing officers.” Van Reenen said the driver lost control of the vehicle, colliding with a vehicle belonging to a member of the public, and came to a stop. “Four suspects alighted from the vehicle, firing shots at our officers who returned fire, fatally wounding two men and injuring a third, who attempted to flee and was arrested by the SAPS. “Their accomplice managed to evade arrest, fleeing on foot into a nearby area of dense bush,” he said. Van Reenen said the SAPS K9 unit was called in to assist, but the suspect remains at large. He said paramedics treated the injured suspect at the scene before he was taken under police guard to a nearby medical facility. No member of the public was injured in the incident. The suspects were found to be in possession of two unlicensed firearms and live ammunition. The vehicle was confirmed to have been hijacked recently in the Scottburgh area. “The suspects have been linked to several cases of serious and violent crimes, including hijackings and house robberies across the greater Durban area. “A search of their vehicle found them to have been in possession of a police radio, as well as gloves and balaclavas,” said Van Reenen. The scene was secured and handed over to the SAPS. Zwane said cases of attempted murder and possession of unlicensed firearms were opened at Bellair Station. He said the injured suspect would appear in court when discharged from hospital. Daily News