She was arrested after the infant was found in the bush when police were alerted by an elderly woman who heard a baby’s screams near her home on New Year’s Eve. “A new-born baby was found and taken to hospital for medical attention. Further investigations were conducted and police dug at a shallow grave at the suspect’s home where small bones were found. They were taken for DNA analysis to ascertain if they were human bones and they can be linked to the suspect,” said police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele. The woman was arrested at her boyfriend’s home, with her luggage packed. “She was charged with attempted murder and child abandonment. Further investigations were conducted after there were rumours that the suspect was pregnant with twins. However, another child was not found,” said Mbele. The woman was expected to appear in the Hammarsdale Magistrate’s Court today. Her 80-year-old mother yesterday told the Daily News her daughter had given birth to a baby three years ago but it had been stillborn. She said she had buried the baby in the family’s yard. “My son came home and told me I should go and have a look at an abandoned house in the area where I found the naked baby lying on a towel that I recognised to be my daughter’s,” she said. She said that as someone who grew up in the rural areas, home burials were the norm and she took the infant, dressed it and buried it. “At the time all this was happening my daughter was not home,” she said. The mother said she was shocked when police arrived at her home on Friday telling her what had happened. “I showed them the infant’s grave in the yard and told them what had happened those years back and I was told I should have reported it to the police,” she said. “I’m heartbroken by all of this. It felt like the police and the community thought I had something to do with all this. I didn’t even know my daughter was pregnant. If I had been there when they found the child, I would have taken it to my sister to raise, because she can’t have children,” said the mother. Daily News