Despite the mother having registered her 12-year-old daughter early, she was not admitted at Ohlange High School in Inanda because the principal said there was no space left. It now transpires that the school requires prospective pupils to write an admission test during the holidays, but the mother said her child had already gone away for the school holidays and so could not have written the paper. “The principal waited five months to tell us there would be an interview, something he should have announced when the registration forms were returned,” the woman said. She said she had another child at the school who had not written a test to be granted admission. “The principal said there is no space and the only space available is for boarders, but I am not going to allow my child to board when we live near the school,” she said. The woman said sending her child to a school out of Inanda would cost her at least R400 a month for transport. She had become so desperate that she would rather have her child repeat Grade 7. “Monday was the last day we could get our children into the school. We waited in the school library until the principal chased us out. He said we should go to our councillors and the Department of Education, and ask them to provide portable classrooms and extra teachers. However, even though the principal said there is no space, there are children that have been accepted who also did not write the test,” she said. Department of Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said if there was no space at the school, the parent should go to the circuit manager for assistance. He said each school had different policies concerning the placement of pupils. “Some schools accept pupils based on results, while others want to know the pupil’s written skills,” he said. A source within the school said they had anticipated 200 pupils, but had received more than 400, which had prompted the decision to conduct an assessment during orientation. “Spaces are limited and we also had to consider pupils who had to repeat the grade,” he said. The man said if parents escalated the situation to the department, then the school could be provided with mobile classrooms and teachers. “If this was the case, we could take all of those who are on the waiting list,” he said. The man said other schools were facing the same problem. Parents in the Inanda area can visit the Mafukuzela-Gandhi Circuit Manager at 1 Spire Road, Stonebridge, Phoenix or call 031 502 4307 for more information. Daily News