Wanda Boshoff, 50, from the Bluff, has spent the past 20 years in a wheelchair and has many times come across able-bodied people using parking bays designated for wheelchair users. “These are people who are quickly running into the shop to buy milk or something. It’s the same with disabled toilets,” Boshoff said. She felt paraplegics needed larger parking bays to accommodate wheelchairs. “The general public don’t understand. These parking bays are for getting in and out of our cars and on to our wheelchairs. They are basically preventing us from doing so. “I for one would not care for having a parking bay close to the entrance of a shopping mall, but we are like toddlers in our chairs. It is also to avoid us being knocked over,” she said. The QuadPara Association of South Africa (Qasa) recently launched a whistle-blowing project to help protect people with disabilities, especially the abuse of parking bays designated for wheelchair users. According to Qasa chief executive Ari Seirlis, the project receives between 10 to 20 notifications daily. Seirlis broke his neck in a diving accident in 1985, leaving him a quadriplegic, and he has worked in the field of promoting the rights of people with mobility impairments. Seirlis said wheelchair parking facilities were there to provide adequate parking for wheelchair users. “These parking bays are 3500mm wide in order to accommodate a wheelchair to enter or exit the vehicle. They are not established in order to provide facilities for any other disability. Nor are they supposed to be used by any person that does not use a wheelchair.” Seirlis said the new campaign encouraged the public to take a photograph of a vehicle that was not accredited to use a wheelchair parking facility, and forward the photograph to their WhatsApp number. Qasa would then follow up with the offender and also communicate with the shopping centre management to urge it to apply a more effective parking management system. If a company vehicle abused a wheelchair parking facility, Qasa would contact the company and encourage them to provide sensitisation training for their drivers so that they could better understand the purpose of wheelchair parking facilities. Have you seen someone abusing a wheelchair demarcated parking bay? Please take a photo and ensure the vehicle registration plate and wheelchair parking sign are visible. Please include the place, date and time it was taken and WhatsApp it to 0738539675. Daily News