It is alleged that fireworks are being thrown into properties, scaring pets and leaving their owners vulnerable to being robbed. With the use of fireworks over Christmas and New Year’s Eve, many pets were sedated because of the loud bangs. In the early hours of last Tuesday morning, a Pinetown resident came across an intruder in her dining room. When she screamed, the intruder grabbed her laptop and fled. The resident, who did not want to be named, said she initially reported the theft to the police, but has since stopped, saying her home has been regularly targeted. At the time, her dogs were hiding in the house because they were scared of the fireworks. In another incident in Pinetown, an intruder jumped over the fence and stepped over the big dog which had been sedated by its owners in an effort to calm it because of the fireworks. A television set which had been stolen was recovered. LAD Security operations director Russel Lawson said he heard about an incident in New Germany where young boys were throwing fireworks into residents’ gardens and then holding up the homeowner. “When fireworks are thrown into a property, the homeowner will go outside to investigate, making him or her vulnerable,” Lawson said. He said this tactic was also used to scare off dogs. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Pinetown Police Station had no records of related incidents reported and registered. Lawson said it was possible the police did not have records of these crimes because it was a new trend. “We are facing the problem of people not reporting petty crimes. People don’t have faith in the SAPS any more. There is no more hope,” he said. He urged residents who heard fireworks in their garden to contact their security company, push the panic button, contact the police or their neighbourhood watch instead of going outside to investigate. New Germany CPF chairperson Tony da Cahna said he had not received reports about the criminal activity, but he had seen it on social media crime groups. Andreas Mathios, from Blue Security, who commented in his private capacity, said he received reports about people driving around Durban and setting off fireworks. Mathios said when the person who was attacked went to the window of the vehicle, another person from the vehicle would get out and rob the person of their belongings. A New Germany resident, who asked to remain anonymous, said young children were throwing loud crackers into her garden as they ran up and down the road. “I know these kids have no money and was told that the fireworks were given to them by men and told to go and play,” she said. Animal rescuer Tracey Dragsund and her friend were patrolling in New Germany on New Year’s Day and spotted a man carrying four to six hand-held fireworks. “He was casually shooting them into properties,” Dragsund said. “We were gobsmacked. We wondered if we should stop him or do anything about it, but we were just two women. It just looked quite scary. It looked like he was walking around with a gun.” She also said a few fireworks were going off at once. At the time, she and her friend were looking for distressed animals. She said some animals jumped over fences in an effort to escape the noise. Daily News