Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said since the festive season started, they had given out more than 34 000 notices to people who had broken traffic laws. The biggest contraventions were overloaded taxis and people driving and texting, Sewpersad said. One taxi was found to have 38 passengers on board, an overload of 24 passengers, he said. Rude drivers and taxi conductors were another problem, with more than 80 drivers being arrested over this weekend alone, Sewpersad said. The number could be higher as figures would only be finalised this morning. Last year metro police arrested about 6000 drivers the whole year. On Wednesday they will be monitoring the roads to ensure that people transporting schoolchildren to and from school were not overloading vehicles and would not spare bakkies carrying people in the back. “Do not pack them like sardines,” he said. With the ANC manifesto launch a few days away, Sewpersad said the precinct around Moses Mabhida Stadium would be closed from Friday at 6pm until the following day at 6pm, when the conference ended. To ensure that events ran smoothly, a joint operations centre, which included personnel from SAPS and Metro, would be in operation. Mluleki Mntungwa, a spokesperson for the provincial transport department, said outside of the high number of fatalities that were reported, the festive season had been relatively successful. He mentioned that during the busiest days - Christmas and New Year - there were relatively few crashes, which was a “step in the right direction”. Drinking and driving was still a major problem, with a driver in Greytown being caught more than three times over the legal drinking limit. In December, the Daily News reported that there were at least 162 deaths on the roads in KZN last December, making it the leading province in the country. Mntungwa said the department would be releasing the outcome of the festive season statistics in the next couple of weeks. Praveen Sunderlall, road incident manager at the N3 Toll concession, said from last week there has been high traffic volumes going out of the province. He said the average peak was 1 800 vehicles going past the toll gates per hour. Daily News