For some, the invitation was a life-changing experience, being on a plane for the first time and their first trip to Joburg. Every year, Motshekga invites matriculants from provinces to attend the Minister’s Matric Results announcement event over a Gala dinner and before that, a special breakfast. For Bongumuzi Ndlovu, 17, and his family, it was their first flight as well as their first trip to Joburg and spending a night in a hotel. He described it as a life-changing experience. Ndlovu from Zama High School in Osizweni, Newcastle, said he was excited about the visit to Joburg and meeting Motshekga. “I am happy my family could have this experience through my hard work. “They are so excited because this is the best way of spending time together before I leave for university,” he said. Ndlovu was accepted to study medicine at UCT. “I want to be a doctor, a cardiologist in particular, because I want to contribute to ensuring that people in poor and black communities live healthy lifestyles to prevent diseases,” he explained. Jarrod Staples, 18, of Westville Boys High School said he had only seen pictures of Motshekga and watched her on TV. “The minister had some encouraging words for us that made us feel special. “She told us, she was passionate about education and sees us as an integral part of South Africa’s future,” he said. When he received the call about this all expenses paid trip, Staples said it was the best call he ever received. “I didn’t expect that I would be one of the best out of all the matrics who wrote the exams. “I almost donated my school shoes immediately after my exams. “I didn’t think that I would be invited to such an event and be asked to wear them again,” he said. Nqobile Nzimande, 16, said she had a lazy morning on December 31 and planned to spend a quiet day at home before the new year celebrations. She said a call from the minister’s office changed her life. She has been accepted to study actuarial science at the UCT. Twenty-year-old Thabile Qondani, also boarded an aeroplane for the first time on Wednesday. She said attending the various events hosted by Motshekga showed her that being deaf was not a barrier to achieving her dreams. “I am still in disbelief. “We had an amazing time and we feel motivated,” said Qondani. Daily News