Durban - Two suspects were killed and a third was arrested following a dramatic chase and shootout on the M7 on Wednesday morning. Marshall Security spokesperson Kyle van Reenen said that working on information received, a joint operation was conducted between the South African Police’s Crime Intelligence unit, Provincial Task Team and the company's own Special Operations Team. Van Reenen said that the suspect vehicle was spotted travelling southbound on the N2 and officers began following it onto the M7 towards Pinetown, where the vehicle turned off towards Queensburgh. "Noticing that they were being followed, the suspects jumped the traffic light, fleeing back onto the M7 towards Durban and a highspeed chase ensued with the suspects opening fire on the pursuing officers." He said the driver lost control of the vehicle, colliding with a vehicle belonging to a member of the public and it came to a stop. "Four suspects alighted from the vehicle firing shots at our officers who returned fire, fatally wounding two men and injuring a third who attempted to flee and was arrested by the SAPS. Their accomplice managed to evade arrest, fleeing on foot into a nearby area of dense bush. "The SAPS K9 unit was called in to assist, however, the suspect remains at large. Van Reenen said paramedics treated the injured suspect at the scene, before he was taken under police guard to a nearby medical facility. No member of the public was injured in the collision. He said the suspects were found to be in possession of two unlicensed firearms and live ammunition. The vehicle was confirmed to have been hijacked recently in the Scottburgh area of the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast. "The suspects have been linked to several cases of serious and violent crimes including hijacking and house robbery across the greater Durban area. A search of their vehicle found them to have been in possession of a police radio as well as gloves and balaclavas and information received indicates that the suspects were on route to conduct a possible hijacking," he said. The scene was secured and handed over to the South African Police Services.