Durban - In what is believed to be the first in the country, the Gauteng Local Division of the High Court has written an epitaph to eight criminal careers on Thursday. Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi  the spokesperson for the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigations(Hawks) said a syndicate that targetted stores in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng were found guilty of 11 bank robberies, a pattern of racketeering activities and 20 serious related charges and sentenced them to life in prison. The eight suspects, were part of a dangerous gun totting syndicate that terrorised Mpumalanga and Gauteng between 2013 and 2014, robbing 11banks, he said. In January 2014, the Hawks’ Serious Organised Crime received a docket analysis of the syndicate from the Hawks’ analysis centre. "Hardly a month, the Hawks team made a breakthrough and secured the attendance of the seven suspects who were arrested for the robbery of a chain store in Empangeni, Kwa-Zulu Natal," Mulaudzi said. In May and September of the same year (2014), a further four suspects were arrested in Johannesburg and Klerksdorp respectively. At the start of the trial in June 2016, one of the suspects, Jackson Msiza (54) decided to plead guilty and was sentenced to twenty (20) years in imprisonment, whilst three other accused, withdrawn due to insufficient evidence. After a two-year trial, the remaining eight suspects, Sikhumbuzo Sibanda (45), Strike Ndebele (48), Themba Ndlovu (45), Xolani Nxumalo (40), Bafana Ntuli (45),and Nkosana Nkomo (28), Vusi Lucky Dube (42) Mduduzi Makhubu (38), were found guilty on two counts of racketeering in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA), robberies with aggravating circumstances, attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearms, and malicious damage to property. The first six are Zimbabweans while the last two are South Africans making the organised criminal group a multinational one. They were all sentenced to a combined 914 years for robberies with aggravating circumstances, attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearms, and malicious damage to property. The Judge slapped them with further life sentences each on two counts of a pattern of racketeering activities. Daily News