Durban - Concerned parents are calling for an investigation into alleged maladministration and employment nepotism at several schools in Phoenix. A placard protest was held on Monday outside a Phoenix school. In their memorandum handed over to the Department of Education offices in the Phoenix Circuit, the group identified as concerned parents demanded that all schools be investigated “expeditiously” for complaints raised against them in dossiers handed to the department. They also want the department to probe the Phoenix Poverty Reduction Association (PPRA) which they claimed misled the community into raising funds for it without proper protocols being followed. R. Tikum the secretary of PPRA refuted the allegations made by the so called “Concerned Parents” with the contempt that it deserves. "We find the allegations baseless and far removed from the truth. This organisation has been established in 2001 and is now 19 years old servicing the needs of the poor and less fortunate in the Phoenix and surrounding areas. It is a registered non profit organisation (NPO). It is also tax compliant in terms of being a registered PBO. The organisation is subjected to a yearly audit by external registered auditors which is then presented at its Triennial General Meetings,"Tikum stated. The PPRA said they were currently feeding 2000 hungry children on a daily basis and we distribute 2000 loaves of bread a month to destitute families. Tikum said all elected board members serve on a voluntary basis without receiving a stipend let alone a salary. "This has been the practice for the last 19 years. The organisation will continue to remain resolute and steadfast in its quest to making a difference to the disenfranchised in our community. We would like to applaud the selfless sacrifice that is being made by all those associated with the association,"Tikum said. Parents called for an investigation into the school governing body (SGB) elections as well as into the principals of seven primary and high schools. Parents also called for the principals’ removal should they be found guilty. According to the memorandum, some officials allegedly misappropriated funds. Parents alleged that the SGB meetings were purposefully disrupted by a group to contaminate any outcome of such investigations. “The cases we reported are collecting dust at the Education Department offices. How can department heads that are implicated investigate themselves? We demand remedial action,” the memorandum read. Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said the aggrieved parents must visit the district office for proper consultation on the allegations. DA provincial spokesperson for Education Imraan Keeka said he had seen evidence suggesting there might be merit to proceed criminally, as well as to ensure that disciplinary steps were taken by the department. “The department is investigating schools in the Phoenix area and this includes all those mentioned in this memorandum. Three district officials were suspended recently. It is concerning that one of the suspended individuals is allegedly politically well-connected and these investigations might be swept under the rug,” said Keeka. IFP MPL, Les Govender said his party condemned any form of financial misconduct, maladministration or corruption. He urged the department to conduct a “full and urgent investigation by officials who aren’t compromised”. “Removing and replacing school principals must never be treated lightly and should only be done after thorough and unbiased investigations are conducted. It is important that parents and concerned citizens play an active role in monitoring what is happening in our schools and I encourage SGBs to be vigilant at all times in the interest of education,” said Govender. Daily News