Durban - The official opposition in the eThekwini made a big splash on Monday about the state of the Rachel Finlayson on the Durban beachfront pool which has been closed to the public for months. DA eThekwini Caucus Leader Nicole Graham, together with DA eThekwini Exco member Yogiswarie Govender and DA  eThekwini Community Services Whip Councillor Mmabatho Tembe were at the pool on Monday to address the state it was in. Graham said the Rachel Finlayson pool remained in an unpleasant state and is barely even usable regardless of the R8 million injection for the rehabilitation of the pool. R8 million, double the expected amount for the initial contract in 2015 which was R4.2 million, has gone to waste at the expense of ratepayers money as the pool is nowhere close to being usable again. She said it was clear that asking, negotiating, talking and waiting was not working. It makes one sick to think that people are paid public money to do this kind of work, and that a contractor has made millions off of this mess. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. DA EThekwini Caucus Leader Councillor Nicole Graham addressed the media about the state of the Rachel Finlayson pool. VIDEO: Thobeka Ngema “Today we are laying charges with the Public Protector, as well as the National and Provincial Departments of Cogta about this mess. We are also going to be requesting a full investigation into the matter by the city’s Integrity and Investigation Unit,” Graham said. Graham also had a number of email correspondence available between her and the city manager, Sipho Nzuza, and other relevant persons in the eThekwini Municipality. “As DA councillors we have repeatedly done oversight, engaged officials and attempted to get things moving,” she said. “I personally have requested the intervention of the city manager, including a full investigation into the staff, contractor and costs involved, to no avail.” Daily News